let's go good morning good afternoon
good evening where are you coming from
hope you all are doing
well
let's go what's going on everybody
welcome back welcome back
you came back
we learned about
encapsulation
abstraction two really hard concepts you
decide to come back tonight for
the inheritance and the polymorphism i'm
glad you're here i'm glad that you
decided to show up again uh these are
meaty topics but we're gonna get through
them together hey we got a lot of fun
stuff tonight
lots of really good examples
going to make oop make sense we got two
more big things to get through we'll do
more review on thursday and thursday is
a really exciting class too
folks
you believe it
we're halfway there folks
we're halfway there this is officially
the halfway point we're there we made it
let's go
uh so i'm gonna put 10 seconds on the on
the clock here because we need to
celebrate a little just a little bit a
little bit thursday's gonna be the big
celebration let's see a little bit 10
second warning
oh
congrats everybody how way there could
you believe it oh think about all the
stuff you're able to do
the things that you now know html css
javascript variables conditionals
functions loops arrays
objects properties methods constructors
what
let's go that's wild to think about i
could sit here and rattling off all
these things all day long
that you all now know halfway through
congrats it's a huge accomplishment
we're gonna celebrate on thursday
because we got some important stuff to
get through we gotta finish out oop and
then we can celebrate with the best of
them
we have come so far uh so
lots of fun stuff to get into tonight
glad you are here uh you know how we do
you know how we do uh we've got a little
bit of things to talk about hundred devs
related we're gonna review objects if
you missed last class that's okay we're
going to review the basics of
encapsulation and abstraction together
and then we're going to move into
inheritance and polymorphism
depending on how it goes depending on
how we're feeling we might have some
time left at the end we might do another
round of kind of working in groups but
we'll see how tonight goes we'll see how
we're feeling these could be meaty
topics that can make our brain put in
some effort so
let's see how we're feeling towards the
end but you like as we like as we always
like to do i like it off with some
questions so
the uh
the the questions is of the day is what
is your favorite character from
television books
tv whatever that's the question of the
day i was excited for the question give
folks a few seconds to get in here that
are running late from work
got goku hercules
card urkel
[Laughter]
hello kitty
we got a lot of simpsons characters
kermit optimus prime
sailor moon okay i see you
now see if you if you're from philly
and like you woke up early i used to
wake up mad early to go to school
because i had to travel pretty far
and uh i would wake up and every morning
sailor moon be playing at like 5 30 in
the morning so i wake up and watch
sailor moon every day throughout high
school
a
we got a lot of interesting ones riley
from the boondocks okay pooh bear
hulk punisher
we got michael scott
we got a lot of good ones batman ron
swanson uh
i feel you this is good i like to see
these these are my favorite types of
questions i'd like to see what you all
are into
cursed bueller
leon get out of here
jack sparrow okay utrit son of
babinbrook
oh no ultra son of utritt
all right thank you all for sharing i
think my favorite all my favorite
characters come from i think alice in
wonderland
so cheshire cat mad hatter
a couple other fun ones
dodo yeah
all i think those are my favorite
characters
all right thank you for sharing uh folks
have other questions questions before we
get started i always like to do one or
two before we jump in
can we do more rock paper scissors
gambling we'll have some gambling
thursday is going to be a gambling show
well i want to say gamble we're going
we're going to yolo some points on
thursday
are you i'm doing good it's been a good
week so far any advice for a phone
interview
my general advice for interviews is
always know
what you're going into
right you should never walk into your
interviews like an accident
always ask
hey
is will this be a
behavioral interview
will this be a
technical interview
right and always know what you're
walking into indifferent hey what's
going on i always know what you're going
into right so always ask don't ever be
afraid to ask what type of interview
you're about to go into
we do have something called the bank so
you can do you can do exclamation point
bank and it's all the questions that we
prepare for behavioral interviews and
then all the questions we prepare for
technical interviews and so if you know
you have an interview coming out i saw a
couple folks they have some interviews
coming up definitely start working
through the bank now we'll have some
time when we'll officially start working
through the bank together in like two
weeks like not next week the week after
um but you can take a peek at it now if
you're getting some interviews early
how many paid clients do we need by the
total end of the cohort that's up to you
i asked for one
some folks really run with it i have
some folks that'll just that'll just
take off and they'll freelance for the
rest of their lives um
and some folks will just get the one and
that's it that's up to you
if we if we were just dealt a major life
gut punch and fell behind how would you
deal how would you rally when your
energy feels gone
first
it is 100
okay to take a break
right it is 100
this is a marathon
not a sprint we all have things that are
gonna hold us back some more than others
and that's okay it's not really being
held back you're just taking a pause
the one thing i ask folks that take a
break that take a rest before they
continue on to get the energy up is
always set a date that you're going to
return put it on your calendar put it on
the fridge put it on your wall and say
i'm going to give myself a week and then
once that week is up here's the date i'm
going to start and here's the very first
thing i'm going to do i'm going to do a
code wars and literally put that on on
on may 12th i'm going to come back i'm
going to do this specific code wars and
that's how i'm going to restart
folks that sometimes when they take a
break and they don't have that date of
return planned they don't have the thing
that they're going to do then it just
becomes a little bit too easy to not
pick it back up so 100 okay to take a
break 100 to listen to your body to
listen to your emotions to listen to
your feelings and say
i need to to take some time to rally 100
okay set a date to come back
and then make sure you come and get help
right joining the discord getting help
in the
discord communities joining the catch-up
crew find your people and get that
support to keep moving through
all right
i have a business degree i've been
following along with the boot camp i was
advised by my coding friends i was in
network with to not kill myself learning
to code but to apply for scrum master
and agile delivery lead positions are
these positions realistic for someone
that is extremely tech savvy but
transferring sectors uh how orders to
gain entry would you expect uh not my
zebra not mizzou
i'm laser focused on getting folks
software engineering jobs it's not
something that i i don't like to speak
on things i don't know about right have
i had folks get scrum master positions
have i had folks go and get those type
of jobs yes
but i honestly don't know the best
pathway into those types of roles and
the thing i do know is that my students
that take
like
in the realm of software engineering
roles but not software engineering roles
traditionally get paid less and have a
stunted career growth so i'm talking
about things like qa or other things
that are that are kind of tangential to
software engineering but not the the
whole kit and caboodle so not saying
that there there's nothing wrong with
those jobs it's just that my students
that take them typically stay there even
if their goal was to eventually become a
software engineer and they stay there
with typically a little bit lower of a
salary so that's why i don't i don't put
my energy into it i put my energy into
software engineering and that's that's
kind of what i figure out
dealer a congrats on the interview
yeah and different so the difficulty
with positions outside of software
engineering roles is that you usually
stay there that is 100 true
mastermind is back hey all right we got
to hit them up
i got it we got it we gotta make we
gotta make that happen i'm really glad
that they're back we needed them
y'all had a meetup in harrisburg let's
go congrats that's huge glad you got to
meet some folks alrighty folks thank you
for the questions let's jump into we got
a lot of stuff to cover tonight uh if
you're following on along on youtube
please go ahead and like comment and
subscribe
only about 60 of people that watch the
youtube channels are actually subscribed
so just just click the click the button
please thank you
alrighty if you haven't checked in go
ahead and check in please
uh if you are following along
please check in like and retweet the
tweet you can do exclamation point
check-in to get the actual link you have
to click the link you have to go to the
tweet give it a like give it a retweet
it helps folks find our community not
pay tens of thousands of dollars to
learn what you have already learned
let's just stop here for a second
you are so i used to teach at general
assembly right i'm still distinguished
faculty there but the the program i
taught the most was a nighttime course
that was all front-end web development
right front-end web development
we learned html css
and the javascript upped until like
maybe two weeks ago three weeks ago so
like you're already past that and that
course cost
twelve thousand dollars
twelve
thousand
yeah
now they had smaller part-time courses
right that were like in the three to
four thousand but the skills you already
have are like 90 of that that 12k course
which is wild
and so
that blows my mind that we're doing this
together and we're all still here if we
were to calculate the money saved it's
just astronomical
astronomical
all right now so please go and like
retweet help folks find us how folks uh
get to try it for free for some folks
going to an in-person bootcamp makes
sense they want to put the money on the
line show up but for a lot of folks they
want to test it they want to try it they
want to see if it's for them if this
coding thing could be an actual career
for them they can come they can watch
all of our videos for free they can join
our discord 31 000 plus strong
to get the help that they need as
they're on that journey and they can do
it for free so please
a like a retweet just so folks can find
us and not have to
to dish out those funds
all right
now
if you are new around these parts we
have a newsletter you can do exclamation
point newsletter
and when you do that uh you will get
access to the emails that go out before
every single class
it's often a place where i share the
most information about the upcoming
classes i'll put links in there early
and sometimes there are super secret
raffles uh like there was today and so
today there's a super secret raffle and
that raffle uh was for vip folks for vip
here on
twitch
and the cool thing about vip is you get
some you get some perks you stand out
you look special you get a special
little icon here on twitch and uh you
can share links too which is pretty cool
so vip has value if you open up the
newsletter i would have saw a newsletter
you could have entered in we had over a
thousand people that filled out this
newsletter before class started so i'm
going to grab all the names
go down here
until class started
i see some of you kind of doing it right
now i'll count it
i'll count it
you open the newsletter folks it pays to
open a newsletter you get cool stuff
let's go ahead and do a name picker
name picker.net here we go
this is for vip folks
as i say a thousand there's over a
thousand
oh maybe there are some repeats
oh no i think i just didn't grab all of
them
all right i see all you sneaky
sneaky folks trying to get in
i'm gonna grab the
some of the sneaky folks
there we go all right over a thousand
three two one
charlie work do her charlie work do her
you got vip coming your way when we take
the break i'll vip you up
maybe i can do it just with like a chat
command let's see
i do just a chat command
all right charlie work doer you got vip
congrats use it wisely please use it
wisely
stand out flex on your friends be a
flexosaurus
alrighty congratulations it pays to open
the newsletter folks you heard it here
first
uh networking comes back next week can
you believe we're done
we're done with april like april just
like what i teleport it through april
and we're at we're at may
right we're in may so that means next
week
the networking has to come back folks
we're getting to the point where you
know some stuff you know some html you
know some css you know some javascripts
all right
you're gonna get closer to the hunt
we got to we got to start bringing back
that networking so that we have a basis
of folks to reach out to when it's ready
for the hunt so let's bring it back
let's dust off the cobwebs it's going to
take a little while we're going to we're
getting close folks we're getting close
to the hunt so we got to bring the
networking back starting next week
deadline for clients is this thursday i
want to see your your signed contract i
want to see if you did a client
alternative if not meaning that you
volunteered or signed up a contract to
volunteer
or you contribute it to free software
that's thursday folks
and then sunday
sunday we come back
sunday we come back for the get bowl we
had a lot of folks that had questions
about git on sunday's office hours so i
decided to just do a full day of git and
github and so sunday we're going to take
three plus hours oh no it's mother's day
fig newtons i met monday
i met monday i met monday because uh
sunday is mother's day i got to fix the
slides
let's let's cancel let's do this real
quick
monday
6pm
monday 6 p.m
uh we're going to go ahead and do a get
bowl it will be recorded it will be
recorded
um
and just a reminder that sunday is
mother's day
so
monday
at 6 00 p.m
we have our get bull and what the heck
is a get ball folks are asking we're
just going to go through git and github
from beginning to end we're going to
learn how to to add to commit to push
we're also gonna learn how to pull we're
gonna learn how to fork we're gonna
learn how to clone we're gonna do all
the fun stuff it'll be recorded if you
can't make it uh but joining live is
always the fun part
all right don't forget to call your mom
on sunday to argue
alrighty speaking of wonderful things
that we can review including git and
github
mayan wolf has pinned an amazing list of
all of their review streams
in the ketchup crew
channel
you can click this link
i'm going to copy the link address i'm
going to spam it in chat real quick in
case you need it
there we go
they have listed out all their review
classes so if you need object review you
got it you want to build a wordle clone
you got it if eloquent javascript gave
you too much trouble
you got it you want to look through that
object calculator project you got it you
want to look at some apis you got it
so mine wolf is a beast doing all these
review streams as part of the stream
team please give them some love like
they're taking time out of their day to
review all the things that the people in
our community need the most help with
it's wild they're literally giving up
their their nights and weekends
to help folks
review
and they're doing it live you know how
hard it is to do it live
where people can scrutinize and see
everything you're doing and they're you
know what come in get a little closer
they're really [__] good at it like
they they're really good so if you're
not following my own wolf you're you're
you're losing out on some great content
some great review i love that they
listed it out so you can pick out and
cherry pick the things that you want uh
my wolf is doing a week delay so they do
their live stream make sure you give
them a follow so you can see when they
go live and then a week later they put
their stuff on youtube amazing educator
somebody is stepping up to make sure
you all get the help that you need with
some of the the the meaty topics that
sometimes i can't take more time to
review my wolf is going through it
cool
now
some people are like wait a minute how
come i keep missing
mine will streams or hello it's rufio
streams why do i keep missing them well
it's because you haven't turned your
notifications on
you got to turn your notifications on
folks if you go to the stream team
channel in the 100 dev section
of our discord
right you go to the stream team channel
you go to notification settings
just click all messages please
click all messages please
uh folks in the stream team only post
when they're going live with a hundred
devs related content or coding related
content right so we we promise not to to
to spam the the notifications you're
only gonna get the bangers only folks
right stream team is out here making it
easier off for you to learn for you to
pick up things to get the review that
you need so just go ahead
stream team right click notification
settings all messages
i'm just gonna give everybody gonna give
everybody a few seconds to do it i'll
wait just a few seconds pull up your
discord
stream team notifications destiny
settings all messages please
everybody a few seconds to do it
is it normal i don't feel comfortable
making cool layouts yeah are you a
designer
if you're not a designer i don't know
make cool layouts
all right some folks are saying i don't
see it
if you still have a gray name on discord
it means you haven't joined 100 devs on
discord
you have to go to the join 100 dev
section click those emojis and so many
more channels open up for you including
the stream team channel
cool
my wife says i can't wait to see you on
my next stream hey let's go
what was the song you played at the
beginning of your crafting your story
stream
uh that was the outro
uh on meek mill with a little snoop
yeah
cool
thank you for sending your notifications
into all messages it really does help
folks
uh it does really help you see those
notifications coming through we only put
it when we're doing 100 devs content
so i really appreciate you doing that
it'll help you never miss a stream team
stream thank you
and with that we have one new stream
team member to introduce uh we've we've
rated them they've been a long-standing
member of the 100 devs team uh it's
finally time to make it official fox is
joining the stream
team congratulations thank you so much
for joining taking their time to help
and work and and and kind of bring the
community together and there's a couple
really big things i love about fox's
streams
one
they're starting at 11 a.m on friday so
friday will be their first official
stream as part of the stream team
they're tagged up on discord they're
going to get tagged up on twitch and
their first stream is going to be at 11
a.m on friday which is amazing because a
lot of folks
aren't on our like eastern standard time
that classes start right so we wanted to
start adding some folks to the stream
team that are at different hours so that
folks that are in different parts of the
world they still get to interact and be
part of this community and grow with us
but but fox is doing something really
interesting
they are streaming
work together sessions so if you want to
come and just work together with other
folks and you don't want to do it alone
especially during the day definitely
check out fox's stream uh they're
amazing we've raided them once before
but now it's official they're part of
the stream team you're gonna have some
fun you're gonna learn some stuff
together and it's gonna be awesome so
super super excited uh this is one i've
been wanting for a long time congrats
fox join the stream team joda
saa thank you for the gift to subs i
appreciate it thank you for that
we're bringing the heat folks we got a
lot of this is this is stream team
thursday i got some i got some other big
announcements to make too i'm really
excited uh we were really really lucky
to have the folks on the stream team
that we have and um
telling you folks i got a vision we're
going for it it's the best place to
learn how to code live online i want
every single day to be to be a hundred
devs person live that you can join that
you can hang out with that you can code
along with that you can get help and
support with and be a part of this
community so friday 11 a.m i'll be there
i'll see you there
welcome fox
hey
all right chat
what the heck are
objects
what the heck are objects
what are objects
everything
everything oh why pin mine oh yeah it's
it's a thread can i pin threads i'm not
sure if i can pin threads but it's a
thread in the ketchup crew
uh someone said how can i see all of the
members of the stream team if you're on
twitch right now
underneath my name it should say like a
hundred devs that's our stream team if
you click on it you can see all the
other members of the stream team
cool
yeah they are everything objects are
everything they are a collection
of variables and functions and when
these variables and functions are tied
to
objects we call them properties and
methods now
we've been using
objects for a while now
we've been using them just to build
regular objects we've been using them as
part of apis we've been using them we've
been consuming them
last class in this class is trying to
understand
why they matter like why we actually
want objects in the mix like why we'd
want to use
our objects in regular day-to-day life
and so we were using them now we're
trying to understand them and then the
last and biggest level is to build with
them and this is something that i really
want you to take to heart every single
time you're learning something new
especially at 100 devs it's a lot of
times it's just worthwhile to get in
there use it first see how it works
tweak it play with it break it
then try and understand it try and fill
in the gaps in your knowledge and then
once you have a rough idea of it start
building because then that building is
how you'll solidify the concept right so
use understand build it's something that
has changed my life when it comes to
learning how to code it's something that
i try to infuse in what we do here at
100 devs but it's something you can take
and run with for everything that you're
trying to learn just get into the muck
use it then try to understand it and try
to build other cool stuff with it
all right
mentioned this last class on on last
thursday uh but we're finna make some
nerds angry especially tonight
especially
tonight
we're taking some of the meatiest
probably hard to under hardest to
understand topics and we're trying to
bring them back down to earth
right make them make sense
use
real words
like real words that we can understand
no big words because we treat them as
disrespect
right
come back down the earth exactly and
have it make sense now when you do that
do we lose some of the nuance of these
terms yes of course but we don't care
about that we're trying to get an
understanding and understand why
these things are important who cares if
you can memorize the definition of
polymorphism if you have no idea why you
use it or what it brings to your code
and so that's what we're spending a lot
of time on we're spending time
understanding the why
wrapping our heads around the different
pillars of object-oriented programming
and we'll have time to see the more
nuanced explanations as we go further so
if you're a codeweenie and you're
watching tonight don't worry
let just like thursday i put a little
little asterisk next to any of the
things that aren't 100 all the way there
so that you can just close your eyes you
can take out your headphones you can
walk away for a few minutes as we
actually explains the way things in a
way that people can understand and then
once you see that after disappear you
can come back you put your headphones
back in and you don't have to get angry
or upset
all right
cool
we talked about objects as being a
collection of variables and functions uh
these these variables and functions we
call properties and methods and they
represent the attributes and behaviors
of things in our program
when we think about objects i like to
think about a physical
object
we need a codeweenie emoji i think so
that'd be funny
[Music]
other thing about physical objects i
think about a stopwatch when i think
about objects i see the stopwatch as
having properties like color
shape
i see it having a brand property a model
property and i see it having methods
like start stop split reset
if you're new we've been going through
this these these objects for a while now
so this is definitely a little bit of
review in the beginning
all right
at first we started creating objects
using what what type of notation is this
to create an object
fox said thanks again everybody this
community means the most to me uh and
then we we got blown out boxes thanks
again everybody this community means so
much to me and i will do my best to make
you guys proud we're already proud you
want to make us proud we're already
proud but super excited to have you as
part of the stream team let's go
yeah we're using literal notation
all right literal notation
when we use the curly braces we're using
little notation and we're adding
properties and methods using what kind
of notation here
we're adding properties and methods
using what type of notation
yeah dot notation exactly
awesome and we're adding a property here
but a method here how do i know that i'm
adding a property here versus a method
here what's the difference
yeah one is a function yeah so whenever
you're using a function with an object
we call that a method nice all right
what if we want to make a lot of objects
what can we use we want to create a lot
of objects we want to create a factory
of objects what could we use to create a
lot of objects
yeah we can use a constructor and that
constructor enables us to spit out
objects we can make an object that has
all of these properties and these these
specific methods tied to it and any
object that comes out of this
constructor will have all of these meth
all these properties and these two
methods
and then we saw well we have this
constructor function but with the newer
versions of javascript we got classes
and classes were what on top
classes were what on top
bob is guessing bob was guessing before
i even said it they knew it was coming
yes it's the sin it's the splenda it's
the syntactical sugar that goes on top
right it's still prototypal inheritance
underneath and we'll have a better idea
what the heck inheritance is like after
tonight's class but it's still
prototypal inheritance underneath we
just have a little bit different of a
syntax
that
will help folks that are transitioning
from other languages and helps us do a
couple neat things as we get into
night's class tonight we're covering
inheritance and we're going to see how
this class syntax gives us some cool
stuff to to to really help when it comes
to the inheritance game
cool
alrighty
but why
why do we put all this effort we already
have variables
we already have functions
we could just make uh a whole
a whole program using variables and
functions
why the heck use objects why would we
need these like factories these
constructor these classes the gif is
loud
the good good to see the classical
inheritance
oh i love that i've seen people say like
encapsulation already oh that makes my
heart feel good
why do we use objects well
what if there was a system
nay
a paradigm nay
a set of rules
an agreed upon structure to our code
that made it easier to add new stuff
made it easier to read through what was
already coded
made it so that you were not afraid to
make changes
we can make changes
and go to sleep at night
you see the warning
what if there was a system a paradigm a
set of rules well
[Music]
so
oop baby that's what we did
what if we had
a system a paradigm a set of rules that
made it easier to add new stuff made it
easy to read through it was already
coded made sure you weren't afraid to
make changes so you could sleep at night
that's oop
object
oriented programming we use these
objects to make our lives
easier
all right let's take a look
let's see some code
disgusting ugh
disgusting i do not like this code all
right
let's look at this code
with this code we have some things here
we have uh we have some we have some
variables our hourly rate our hours
worked our tax rate
we have a function to help us calculate
profit
and um we actually calculate that profit
and store it in a variable called profit
and then we're console logging profit so
i have a question
is it easy
to add new feature team has been here
why is that so funny
is it easy to add new features and
functionality
let's take a look here we go i just
added
a way to to hold money for taxes right
so we had our calculate profit now we
added a new function to hold for taxes
we have a new place where we're holding
for taxes this is
one thing that we've added
and do you feel comfortable with what we
added do you feel like you understand
what's going on like we could sit here a
spaghetti monster exactly we could sit
here
and we could figure it out right we're
like all right
all right so
hold for taxes needs profit made so if
we come down here we can see that all
right profit made is actually profit
that was passed in
profit was passed in here
profit is using hourly rate hourly rates
coming from here hours is coming from
here
tax rates coming from here and then all
that's being passed in
to calculate profit so
hourly rate becomes rate hours becomes
number of hours tax rate becomes taxes
that goes in we calculate the rate the
number of hours to taxes that value gets
spit out it gets spit into where the
function was called down here it goes
back up to hold for taxes
no
god
no god please no no
no
right
like we could sit here and figure this
out
right we could sit here and figure this
out we could we could we could we could
do leon's playing madden tonight we
could sit here and figure this out we
all could read this like very procedural
code if this code works we could figure
it out
but all of our parameter names are named
something different
there's nothing that would stop if we
were working with another engineer
there's nothing that would stop them
from adding a function that also had
different parameter names it's really
not like there's nothing there's
it's just it's just too much
it's bad code
we're bad as we write bad code but this
is too much
right it works we could figure it out
but we wouldn't feel comfortable
really kind of like understanding what's
happening can another developer just
like look quickly and get the gist of
what's happening
no they're gonna have to spend too much
time doing what we just did like tracing
everything through whenever they want to
add stuff they have to go through that
whole maze of figuring out what stuff is
nah
right and as we kind of like keep
looking at this like if i made a change
like if i'm looking through this like
can i spot changes
like i just i just made a change could i
can i see what what happened here no
it would take too much time
we're going to see we're going to be
sitting there trying to calculate all
these things we're going to be like it's
just too much
but does it work yes we could just write
variables we could just write functions
and get our programs to work but it's
not maintainable
there's too much stuff all over the
place
and we can't really make changes without
losing sleep at night if we make a
change here
is it affecting something further down
in our code base i would have no idea if
i was working
with
another developer
and we were both making changes at the
same time there's a really strong chance
that our changes would break each
other's code
and so we we need
to figure out
a way to not be stuck with this
but with something that can help
combine
our data
and functionality
because when we're looking at it we
notice that there were some data
right we had our hourly rate
we had our hours
we had our tax rate
and we had our functionality like the
ability to calculate profit
and the problem was
the problem was there is no connection
right we had data
we had functionality
there was no connection
and so what if there was a way
that we could
fuse
our data
fuse our functionality together and get
all the benefits that we talked about
last class so we gotta do the full dance
right we gotta we gotta
all right we got it we got it we got to
fuse
the data and functionality together
because when we do that
look how clean it looks
oh baby
look at this
oh
look at this did you just look at it
it's beautiful
elsa right
it looks good
right that's clean
that's clean that's fresh look look at
it look at it
we have one object
where the data
and functionality is combined
right
so when we're talking about the hourly
rate
we're using the this keyword so we're
not talking about some other hourly rate
we're talking about the hourly rate
that's part of this object
when we're talking about the hours we're
not talking about some other hours talk
about the hours
that are part of this object
when we're talking about the tax rate
we're not talking about any tax rate
we're talking about the tax rate that's
a part of this object
and so
is it easy to new add new features and
functionality
yes
it it
it's easier to add the features and
functionality because we're all using
the same language we're using all the
same variables right so there's no
there's there's there's not anything
getting away from us we're not having
all these made up parameters and if
somebody wants to to to
get the hourly rate they can clearly see
that there's already an hourly rate set
so we don't have to worry about
outside global variables we don't have
to worry about somebody coming along and
messing with it all of the data
and the functionality is fused together
in a way that makes it way more readable
and easy to make changes so now when we
want to add a calculate tax is held
we know what data we're working with
when we go to calculate taxes held we're
dealing with the same data that we were
dealing with when we were trying to
calculate profit
this makes it way easier to keep adding
new bits of functionality without
worrying if we're using the wrong bits
of data our data
and functionality
are fused together
now can another developer look at my
code and understand what's happening can
you quickly look at this and understand
all right i'm calculating profit and i'm
using these values here
you know developer look and see what's
happening
do they have to look anywhere else in my
program
to see how i'm calculating profit
they have to worry that somewhere else a
hundred lines down in this file
something else is going to change
no they know exactly where they look and
they can understand what's happening
they don't worry that there's something
loose somewhere else in my code base
that's going to make it hard for me to
understand what's happening
can they make changes without losing
sleep
right i made a change here i changed the
track rate the tax rate from 0.35 to 0.4
am i gonna lose sleep that all of my
functionality no longer works
no i didn't have to i didn't have to
worry because i was already using
the tax rate
from the object so i don't have to worry
about any other bits of my functionality
breaking because i already know that
functionality right i already know that
functionality is using the same set of
data the data and the functionality are
fused together
so this fusion of data
and functionality
into one object you see the warning this
fusion of data
and functionality into one object well
[Music]
so
yeah there's no music i know i can hear
it
i can hear it
[Laughter]
as encapsulation
encapsulation
encapsulation let's get let's uh
there's your warning nerds
we gotta find my pen again your nerds
your warning close your eyes take your
headphones out it's okay
the process of storing our functions our
functionality our methods with their
associated data or our properties into
one thing aka an object that's
encapsulation
using our data and our functionality
together
into one thing is encapsulation
cool
so
with encapsulation
is it easy to add new features and
functionality
yeah
yeah way easier
cool
let's take a look
at the current best
prosumer
espresso machine on the market
all right now we spent a little bit more
time on this last class so this is a
little bit of a review right a little
bit of a review um we're going to go
through encapsulation and abstraction a
little bit quicker so we can get to
inheritance and polymorphism if you're
brand new you're joining us for the
first time we're running a 30-week
software engineering bootcamp and we're
halfway through so this review is going
to be a little bit faster if you're just
joining us live for the first time
so just keep that in mind also if you
missed last thursday's class we're going
through a little bit faster but we're
going to recap at the end
before we leave tonight we're going to
recap and we're going to talk about the
why we just saw that it was easier to
add new features and functionality when
we used encapsulation we're still going
to get to even more of the why of
encapsulation when we recap towards the
end of the night as well all right
here's the gaja classic pro it is the
best prosumer espresso machine on the
market
makes beautiful espresso has one glaring
big problem
hs software engineering a thank you for
the prime
yeah the wand it's hot garbage literally
hot garbage the one that you see on the
right hand side that one is used to add
texture to your milk
right you you want to you want to have
beautiful lattes right you need texture
in that milk and the steam one is there
to provide that texture but it doesn't
it does it's it's not good
it's not good
so
the gaggia classic pro
has a boiler right you put water in
and there's a boiler
and that boiler creates steam
right it creates steam
that steam can go through your
portafilter
and make delicious espresso
and that steam
can go through the wand to help add
texture to your milk right so
it heats water for espresso and steam
for your milk right so it heats that
water to make steam for your espresso
and your milk
but the steam wand sucks
and since the scene one sucks
what should the engineers do
if the steam wand sucks what should the
engineers do
they should fix
the wand
fix the wand please just fix it fix the
wand
all right
they should fix the one now
do the engineers
have to redo the water boiler
do
leon you're really trying to reach a
certain audience
see we're all here to get the sh money
and once we get the shmoney
and you're ready to upgrade your coffee
experience think of me
think of me
once you once you've rolling in the big
bucks
and you're like you know what
time to go expresso
think of me
all right
what should they do they shouldn't they
shouldn't get rid of the the water
boiler that's making the steam
they they they shouldn't get rid of
this has to be an aspirational stream
right
they shouldn't get rid of the
portafilter that makes excellent coffee
they shouldn't get rid of the buttons
right
but they should get rid of the buttons
they should just fix the freaking wand
right
they should just fix the wand
do they get rid of the water boiler no
and when they're fixing the wand
do they really need to worry about the
portafilter
when they're fixing the wand do they
really need to worry about the water
boiler
no the engineers can just fix the one
they can focus
on just the one they know that when they
make changes to the wand they're not
going to break everything else the wand
has crappy two holes in it it should
just have one
right and so if the engineers just focus
on the wand
that saves them a lot of headache a lot
of trouble they don't have to throw out
the whole espresso machine they can just
focus on the wand
so we can say as they're fixing the wand
that the water boiler well that's
probably
abstracted
know what i'm saying
no saying they don't have to worry about
it it's distracted away from their
concern
all right
let's think of another example
when we get into our car if you can if
you have a car and you get into a car if
you've ever driven a car
when you get into a car
do you do you think about
how the cylinders are firing
do you think about the way that your the
the air to the fuel ratio inside of your
engine
or do you just press like the button or
turn the key and hope it goes
right oh we got some we got some car
weenies in here leon i care about the
exact ethanol ratio in my in my gas
i got i got to make sure that those
cylinders are firing on the right times
i care about it all the time leon i get
in that car and if i'm not thinking
about it ain't going to go
for most of us that are not car weenies
we turn a key or press a button
whom i can i press a button baby you
know what i'm saying i was getting car
pressed to buy and got no keys
money uh i press a button my car turns
on
right
car turns on
and uh i just use the steering wheel
and i use the pedals
i ain't thinking about anything else
the whole rest of the car
is abstracted
right the whole rest of the car is
abstracted i only care about my
interface
i only care about my interface my
interface is my steering wheel
my interface is my pedals and my shifter
that's it
that's my whole interface for the car i
don't care how the fuel is making it
from the gas tank into the engine i
don't care about the oil doing this
lubrication i don't care about the
intercooler i don't care about anything
that's happening
inside of that car i press the button
and i go
right
that's it
i have a very limited interface i
everything else is abstracted
away from me
all right let's look at some code
uh oh
uh-oh
so um
i made a calculator
i made a calculator for our agency
and um the invoices can make the the
clients can get their invoice
um but they can also see the hourly rate
and they can actually see the amount of
profit that we made
and uh that that's
that's bad
like we don't want them to know the
hourly rate we don't want to know how
much profit we're making
we want to make sure that they feel like
they're getting all the value in the
world that they got us they got us where
they want us right and so we can't let
them see the hourly rate we can't let
them see the profit
we just want them to be able to get
their invoice and right now if they were
smart they could see all right
how to get the profit
and they could see how to uh
how to get the hourly rate
right and that that would be there for
them to see
we can make a quick change
and we're going to see
private properties and methods later
tonight we're going to see that when we
get to inheritance we're going to see
this way of doing this right this is
this is a this is a nerds violently
shaking scenario by the way so i just
made a few quick changes here
i set hourly rate
and the calculate profit
to
local variables they are no longer this
so that means they're no longer bound to
the what
they're no longer bound to the what
yeah we're gonna get into getters
tonight yeah getters and setters yeah
they're no longer bound to the object
like the object that gets spit out of
this constructor is no longer going to
have a rate property or a calculate
profit method however
right however
inside this constructor we can still
figure out the rate we can still
calculate the profit however when our
user tries to get the hourly rate or the
calculate profit using that dot notation
right to get that dot notation they
can't get it because it's not bound to
the object they're just variables that
are used inside the function there's no
way for those two things to come out of
the function they can't use that dot
notation anymore this is different
right this is different when we bind
them to the object with this remember
objects come out of this constructor
with the this keyword they're going to
have that tax rate they're going to have
that calculate profit but since we set
them
right since we set them
to the hourly rate and the calculate
profit are set to local variables they
only exist
inside of this function anyone that
tries to access them outside the
constructor they don't exist they are
scoped
inside of this function
cool
hey rockets
all right
y'all throw some big words at me right
now
throw some big words at me now i'm going
to treat them as disrespect we're not
we're not there yet we're not there yet
cool
so we were able to
we were able to
abstract some stuff away from our client
all right
so
my client can still get their invoice
but they can no longer see our hourly
rate that's beautiful they can still do
everything they need to do they get
their invoice our invoice
needs to calculate
how much to charge them but they can no
longer see our hourly rate
the water that was boiling in our gaza
classic pro espresso maker
that steam that was generated and how it
was generated that was abstracted away
from the wand the wand didn't care about
how the water was boiled and the steam
was created and an engineer working on
fixing that wand does not care they can
focus just on the one
the hourly rate was hidden from our
client they could still get their
invoice but the hourly rate was only for
our use they couldn't get it
the complex or unnecessary details are
hidden
they are hidden
this enables you to implement things
without understanding even thinking
about all the hidden complexity if you
were an engineer working on the gaja
classic pro steam wand you could just
work on the steam wand and not have to
worry about anything
else
this idea of hiding the complex or
unnecessary stuff
makes our code be able to be in smaller
more manageable pieces when we are
working on a huge team with other
engineers we want to be able to take one
bite-sized piece of code work on it fix
it break it do whatever the heck we want
and not worry about the rest of our code
base if we had to worry about the rest
of our code base whenever we are making
changes
that would be a bad deuce
hey bearings photo hey what's going on
how you doing thank you for the gift it
subs hope you're doing well
hope you're doing well thank you for
being here good to see you again hope
you're doing well
yeah smaller more magical pieces of code
and it enables us to do stuff once
if we are
making
a new steam wand we don't have to remake
the boiler we don't the remake the
portafilter we have to remake the
buttons we can just fix the wand enable
us to do stuff once same thing with our
code if we abstract out our different
pieces we can just do stuff once and use
those pieces whenever we want we can
look at our code here and we can reuse
the calculate profit whenever we want we
don't have to redo the calculate profit
every single time we need it when we try
to figure out what we're going to charge
our client or how much we have to save
for taxes we don't have to constantly be
remaking these bits of functionality we
can do them once
and only use them as needed so this idea
of hiding complex or necessary details
implementing and doing stuff once making
a more manageable piece of code here's
your warning
that's distraction baby
so
[Music]
foreign
[Laughter]
let's go
had to show some love after getting a
job a i appreciate you showing the love
thank you for being here congrats on the
job that's huge thank you for the gift
it subs
alrighty folks i i think i think it's
important for us to just summarize real
quick and then we're going to take our
break
abstraction
is hiding
welcome proxy
abstraction is hiding the details
just showing the
the essentials it makes our code simpler
more predictable more manageable
and when we come back from break we're
gonna live my vegan dream and start a
farm so if you're new around these parts
we'd like to take a five minute break at
the top of the hour
if you're able please get up move around
hydrate let your eyes focus on something
that's not your screen come on folks
grab some water hydrate kiss some babies
when we come back we're building a farm
[Music]
all right folks welcome back welcome
back let's go let's move on here
alrighty
all right yeah
feeling good
we did a little bit of a speed review of
encapsulation
and abstraction
making it so that we can have easier to
read
more digestible code where we don't lose
sleep over making changes
where we can hide the unnecessary stuff
so we can focus on the things that we
want to build with encapsulation and
abstraction we can get all those things
done
maybe nugget baby
all right folks let's uh let's start a
farm let's have some fun let's start a
farm
all right so here
i have
an animal
class
and we can see in this animal class
we have a constructor that gives all the
animals on our farm a name
and it gives them the ability to
speak
right
we have the ability oh no leon vadar
one day that's like a that's like
long-term dream
um
we have the ability to
have an animal class that has a name
and the method of speak
and so what we're seeing here is that we
want to have a farm and we want every
single animal on our farm
to have a name
cool
now what if we wanted to have a bunch of
different
animals on our farm
well we can do something called
extending our class
so this is where the objects start to
get a little bit more
fun
so
leon running a software engineering farm
uh so my wife really wants to start like
an animal rescue like like a uh
specifically a pit bull rescue
and so she had this really funny like
there's the pit bulls and parolees she
wants to do like pit bulls and
programmers so it's like an on-site
coding boot camp
where instead of like paying to go
through the boot camp you take care of
the pit bulls while you're there and so
like it's like a like a work share
um i did a lot of like work shares
growing up and so that that's that's
like something we've been thinking about
for a while
um somewhere something along those lines
but i think it'd be fun i think it'd be
cool
all right
so uh we
[Laughter]
we can extend our classes which if
you've done the reading you might have
seen so far right but this idea is that
we're gonna have all these different
kinds
of animals on our farm and so here the
first item we could have is this lovely
dog
and dog extends animal so we get all the
wonderful features of the animal class
but we can also add the stuff that we
care about when we're talking about dogs
and so let's think about dogs all
needing a breed
right a breed
and so we wanted to have our animal
class for all of our animals and we
wanted to have a
dog that extends that animal class and
adds the stuff that just the dog would
need so here you can see that we've
added the breed because maybe not all
animals have a breed
all right so the mdn has like this
little quip that's kind of hard to read
and understand
um but it's something that i want to
spend a little bit of time reading and
then see if we can like pull it apart
and make it make sense let me just read
it once and then we're going to come
back to that code i just showed you
we're going to walk through super all
that stuff let me just let me let's just
read this real quick
if you find yourself starting to create
a number of objects that have similar
features so that's what we're about to
get ourselves into we're creating a
bunch of animals
right we're creating a bunch of animals
but we know that we're going to have
some animals that are very similar like
all of our dogs are going to be similar
all of our cats are going to be similar
all of our cows are going to be similar
all of our horses are going to be
similar right so if you find yourself
starting to create a number of objects
that have similar features
then creating a generic object type to
contain all the shared functionality and
inheriting those features in a more
specialized object types can be
convenient and useful
oh [__]
let's go back
all right we already know we want to
create a bunch of objects we know we're
going to create a bunch of animals
we're going to create a bunch of animals
so we're i'm with you there we need to
create a we're building a farm
we need a lot of animals
all right
now we know all of our animals every
single animal on our farm is going to
have a what
every single animal in our farm is going
to have a what
a name
every single animal in our farm is going
to have a name all right
so then creating a generic object type
to contain all the shared functionality
all right so the shared functionality
that all of our animals are going to
have is a name
and the ability to speak
so even though we're going to wind up
creating dogs and cats and cows and and
horses and sheep
all of those animals need to have a name
and the ability to speak all right so if
you find yourself starting to create a
number of objects that have similar
features that's the situation that we're
in
we're trying to create animals
and we want all those animals to have a
name
and a speak method
then creating a generic object to
contain all the shared functionality
that's what we did
we created a
what they say a generic object type to
contain all the shared functionality
that's what we did we created an animal
class
where they all wind up with a name
and the ability to speak
right
with a name and the ability to speak
and inheriting those features into more
specialized object types can be
convenient and useful
inheriting those features into a more
specialized object type what would our
more specialized object type be
yeah
dog cat cow horse sheep those be our
more specialized objects so when we look
at this code
we see
that we can use
all of the
hey thank you for the raid
coming through with with the heat today
you got the whole crew today what's
going on thank you for the raid
what are you all up to
what's going on raiders thanks for
stopping by uh we are in the middle
we are in the middle
of trying to make object-oriented
programming make sense
we just covered encapsulation we just
covered abstraction and now we're
getting into i'll give you a little i'll
give you a little heads up
don't tell the other folks who've been
here for a while uh we're getting into
inheritance so stay with us stay with us
or get into inheritance hope your stream
went well i hope you're doing well thank
you for the raid we gotta we gotta get
the this coming back to you
hey i appreciate that thank you
let's uh
also let's let's talk we gotta we gotta
figure out how to get this swinging back
your way
we gotta get we gotta send a rage your
way he's giving us all the love we gotta
send some love your way too thank you
thank you for the raid
all right
so
we're reading this like really
convoluted thing that the mdn gave us
if you find yourself starting to create
a number of objects that have similar
features we're trying to build a farm
right we're trying to build a farm and
so we're going to have a lot of animals
on the farm
so we find ourselves starting to create
a number of objects that have similar
features and what we created was an
animal class
where every animal has a name
and the ability to speak
right name and the ability
to speak
and we want to start being able to
extend this class
so that we can start adding the stuff
that dogs would need start adding the
stuff that um
cats would need
horses would need etc
and what we're noticing here
is when we look at the dog class
we don't actually do the
this dot name anymore we're not doing
this dot name
to add a name to the objects that come
out of the dog class
we have this
beautiful super command
and this super command
enables us to take all the stuff
that came from the
parent
now you might call it a class and a sub
class for tonight we're going to call it
a parent and a child we're used to those
kind of relationships still this far so
i'll let the nerd shake violently but
we're going to call it a parent and a
child
just to make it a little bit easier
because we're talking about inheritance
right just a little bit easier for
ourselves the code weenies can run off
that's okay
all right so we have our parent class
which is animal
and our child class which is dog nerds
everywhere quaking right and we have
this lovely super which enables us to
grab all the stuff that was on animal
and use it inside of dog
why
is this so helpful why is this game
changing what does this enable us to do
chat what are some thoughts
it's dry
it is dry af exactly
it could enable us to
not have to repeat
a lot of code
we can get rid of a lot
a lot
of duplicate code and we can go from
what would be
as we start to build out this animal
class maybe lots of line of codes
to one singular line when we want to use
it inside of the dog
right and so
dog can get all of the stuff that we had
from animal
but it can also start to extend it and
have just stuff that the dog needs like
a breed
right so we start to get this little bit
of a little bit of a oomph here where we
can
get all of our
let's go back to the mdn here
we can start realizing hey we're
creating a
number of objects that have similar
features that's why we create the animal
class we need all of our animals to have
a name the ability to speak
and then we created that generic object
right that contains all that shared
functionality
and then we can inherit those features
into more specialized objects we have
just inherited
all of the stuff from animal
into our dog class
and this enables us to start keeping our
code
organized but also reducing the
the duplication of duplication of our
code
right so now we can run off and build
everything that we need for dogs we can
build everything that we need for cats
but we're also not redoing giving them
names we're not redoing them giving them
a name to speak right we can we can
start to
specialize our objects
and inherit all of that stuff so it
stops us from having to repeat so much
code over and over and over again
cool
would super only inherit the past
property name in this case yes in this
case it's only going to take name now
there's gonna be a lot of stuff that we
see tonight with these kind of classes
and literally your homework the thing
that i want for you to do most for
homework
is to play with this code
break it
try doing different stuff try building
more and more
children
with this with these classes if we build
a dog you build a cat right so let's be
part of your homework anything that you
might have there's a little question i
want you to play with it formulate
questions and we come back thursday and
we're reviewing all this stuff we'll
review and we'll answer a lot more
questions then
cool
all right
so by using these
classes
of the parent and the child we just
eliminated a whole bunch
of redundant code
a whole bunch of redundant code and what
i want to do is i actually want to see
this in action
i want to see this in action so i'm just
going to go ahead and copy this
and i'm going to open up
my inspector here we're just going to do
it in the inspector we're going to do it
on the fly
i'm going to paste this in
beautiful
so what we did here is we have our
animal class
and we extended the animal class with
the dog class right we have our parent
animal and our child dog and we created
a new object or a new dog object
and we passed in two two things we
passed the name of simba
and the breed of shepherd
right and so if we look at this real
quick
simba
gets passed in
the name
where is name then passed to
yeah super
super right we're going to take that
name
and we're going to pass it
into
the parent
right super we went up a level right we
went up a level
we passed it into name
so now
we're going to grab this dot name which
in this case
will be
simba
so the object that comes out of this dog
class
will have a name
property
but that name came all the way from
the parent class
right
then we passed in shepherd
and that went to breed
we can see that we didn't pass that to
super
so we kind of just skipped that line and
this dot breed
is now shepard
so we wound up with the name
from the parent class
and the breed on our child class and if
we ask for simba
we can see that we have
a dog object
that has a
name of simba
and a breed of shepherd and if i open it
up what else am i going to expect to see
we keep digging
we can see that there's a speak as well
you see that there's a speak as well so
if we go ahead and we do simba
dot name
we get simba if we do simba dot breed
we get shepherd if we do simba dot speak
and we use our parentheses because it's
a method
we get simba makes a sound
right so we can inherit
all of those properties all of those
methods from the parent
right
you get all of it and i know right now
it seems simple right right now there's
only there's only one property on the on
the parent constructor there's only one
method on the on the parent constructor
but imagine if we were building out like
real animals like we needed to have a
lot of stuff like the name of the farm
their actual name their farm name we
needed to have number of like number of
legs all this stuff that we could think
about that all of our animals would need
and then whenever we created a new dog
class or an extension of that class we
got all the stuff that comes from the
parent without having to re-type it out
without having to retype it out well
we're going to eliminate
a whole bunch of redundant
code
got your warning folks
only a whole bunch of redundant code
[Music]
is
hey
[Music]
do it
just do it
poof
oh boy
all right
inheritance baby
all right we can make a class from
another class or a hierarchy of classes
that share a set of properties and
methods
what let's read that back
we can make a class from another class
for a hierarchy of classes that share a
set of properties and methods
right like we could start to bring a lot
of organization to our code with this
inheritance we can we can start to get
out a lot of
redundancy of our code we can get it out
by using this inheritance
right
we can start to really think through how
we could build
real stuff
so if we're thinking about
our animals
right
we now have the ability to have a parent
of animal and a child of dog of cat
of of horse of of cow
right
but what if we wanted to also have a
bunch of other animals what if we wanted
to have
like
domesticated animals and like wild
animals right like animals that we put
like selective pressure on right right
that might have like breeds like dog has
a breed right what do we want to
separate dogs that we put like
that are like cut from husbandry right
from like i don't know like a mccall
that we caught in the wild right like
don't cut don't catch mccall's in the
wild i'm just throwing that there is
like a zebra we're talking about zebra
exactly a zebra right it's unreal
uh like a zebra right
we could start to really think about how
we might build that out
right
all of our domesticated animals would
have a breed right i think that's true i
don't know
they would all have breeds right but
maybe our wild animals might not
actually have a breed
so we could have a parent of an animal
class
and then what could our subclasses be
what could our subclasses be
yeah we could have like a domesticated
subclass
and a wild subclass right or like a a
domesticated child
and a wild child
wild child right
and the domesticated
child would have breed
it would have
uh
year since domestication right they
would have all this stuff that that we
would need for domesticated animals to
have but our wild child wouldn't have
any of that stuff it might have the
location where they came from right like
where where was where is their natural
habitat right so our
domesticated
child might have
breed whereas our wild child might have
natural habitat and so we can start to
build out our farm from a parent animal
to
domesticated and wild and then in death
domesticated we could extend to have our
dogs our cats our cows
and we could extend our wild to have our
zebra our mccall all that stuff and so
we can start building out
this beautiful chain of inheritance
where we don't have to constantly repeat
ourselves whenever we want to add a new
domesticated animal
right whenever we added a new
domesticated animal not only could it
inherit the breed
from the domesticated class it could
inherit
the name and speak from the animal class
and whenever we have a wild child a wild
a wild object
like a like a zebra it could inherit
where it was originally its natural
habitat and then also get the name and
the speak from the animal and so it just
adds this layer
of organization to our code it adds this
ability to have this inheritance so we
don't have to repeat ourselves every
single time we start to add new
stuff
this is kind of cool i think it's kind
of cool too
i'm i i think this is where it starts to
get neat it really is like a point where
we can start to really think
about
our the like the intentions behind the
code we're building we can start to get
this reusability we could start to like
get this abstraction this encapsulation
like these are real things that i want
you to understand that you can use right
like once you understand these are
things you can put into practice that'll
actually save you time
larnell yeah yeah
cool
this is starting to get very neat my
brain doesn't hurt anymore oh we got we
got some we got plenty of time left we
got some plenty of time left for the
brain to hurt
all right
let's go ahead and what i want you to do
is i want you to make a new child class
we made a dog class i want you to make
another child class i want you to i want
you to make your own child class pick a
new animal to add to the farm
and try and extend our animal class so
uh in the starter code for today i
actually have a completed
a completed class already here i have
dog extension i have cad extensions i
have a bunch of stuff that's already in
here so you can always peek at this you
can peek at the slides because that's a
little bit different some stuff that we
started to get to so you can kind of
look at the slides if you need to but i
want you to go ahead and just practice
extending the animal class so type out
the animal class type out the extension
we're gonna put five minutes on the
clock i really want you to get your
hands to get on this keyboard i know
we've been doing a lot of like
theoretical talking nonsense let's get
let's get let's get down all right get
your fingers on the keyboard if you
don't have the materials for today you
can get the materials on our discord uh
just do exclamation point discord agree
to the rules and all the materials you
need for today are in the follow along
materials channel
all right
i'm gonna put five minutes on the clock
uh you can go ahead and open up uh the
objects uh the objects uh child class i
don't think you need to create your own
just just go ahead and extend the animal
class
all right what about five minutes on the
clock i really want you to think through
this i want you to add some stuff i want
you to try it break it mold it bend it
take five minutes and then we're gonna
go over it together
you got this
funk we're gonna get over that in a
little bit we're gonna go over that a
little bit
if you're looking at that completed
section there's stuff in there we
haven't gotten to yet
kidding not really we're gonna see how
they get that same
the same stuff we got by using let
before i'm gonna show you how to use how
to do that today uh with private stuff
we use that word loosely
when's the next story class uh not this
week but probably next week
got this folks
three minutes 30 seconds left
can you overrate a function yes you can
we're actually going to see that in a
little bit
remember about how this is all working
underneath the hood remember we're using
classes but underneath the hood it's all
prototypal inheritance and since it's
all prototypal inheritance underneath
the hood that means the objects always
check themselves and then go up the
prototype chain
keep that in mind
oh busy hope they're okay
can we re-extend you can extend an
extension yeah
is there a way to privatize the
properties method yeah we're gonna talk
about that in a bit
why is it called super because they
watch too much um
comic book heroes question comics they
read too many comics and watch too many
superhero movies
made a dragon nice
yeah glitch that super means above in
latin or something there you go
i'm doing hippopotamus i love it
alrighty folks come on back come on back
let's take a look at this together
all right so let's take a look
going to grab the animal class and i'm
going to plug it in here
all right
we had our class animal
and we had our class dog i'm just going
to copy this too let's make it easier
there we go so we had our class animal
we had our class dog let's do another
extension here
so let's go ahead and do class
let's say cat cause we talked about cat
so much let's do cat
extends
animal
now
when i do
the extends animal
this is where i get a lot of access to
the original or the parent class
right i get access to all the methods
and somebody asked wait a minute
can i override the speak like can i have
a speak on my cat method and you can so
let's go ahead and do this let's go and
build our constructor
um let's take in just kind of like dog
which feels kind of dirty name
and breed
because we're repeating ourselves which
means that there probably should be some
like class in between animal and the
um dog and cat but let's just go with it
for now
we're gonna do super of name
and we're gonna do
this dot breed equals breed
and we can come down here
and do a speak
we can come down here and do a speak
and if we do a speak
um let's just console.log
meow for now
somebody asked wait leon can you can you
override the speak
um that was in the original animal even
if it is extended from animal
and the answer is yes
because all these classes are just what
classes are just what
syntactical sugar baby there's that
sweet sweet sugar
underneath the hood is still prototypal
inheritance and what we know about
prototypes and prototypal inheritance is
that objects always do what before they
wreck themselves
objects always do what before they wreck
themselves
they always check themselves before they
wreck themselves right so no matter what
object comes out of cat it's always
going to look at itself first before it
goes up the prototype chain to get
something else
right so there's still prototypal
inheritance underneath the hood which is
important to remember
cool
so we have our lovely extension of
animal
we have our constructor and we're using
super to be able to get access to the
properties that are set on the
constructor right we're able to we're
going to be able to pass in a name
and be able to get this name set on the
object that comes out of this class
right
we also have the ability since it's an
extension to have access to this
original speak
right if we wanted to
we could use super to get this speak
again but we'll see that in a second
and we're able to also set methods on
the new thing that we created right and
so this extension gives us the ability
to set new properties
grab old properties set new methods and
if they're not set here we can always go
with the prototype chain to get the
other ones
so
this idea of having classes that are
parent and children enables us to
reduce the amount of redundant code it
can speed up your process but more
importantly it can give you a way of
thinking about your programs in a way
that starts to combine all this stuff
we're using encapsulation to fuse our
data and our functionality
we're using abstraction so we can just
work on singular pieces at one time
we're using this inheritance so we don't
have to keep reinventing the wheel each
time we want to use something if we go
back to our original example of the gaja
classic pro
right we probably have something that's
like a an espresso machine class
and then we have some sub classes that
give us access to the water boiler or
the steam wand or some other bits and
things right it's going to be able to
start adding structure and like i said
we don't want to have to we don't i
don't want you to freak out about
understanding yet i have to show you all
the basics then we start to use it once
we start to use it then we can worry
about understanding and once we worry
about understanding we can worry about
building don't try and skip these steps
it's the reason i showed you that in the
beginning is let me show you this
let's use it a little bit and then the
understanding will come as we start to
use it i know this is a lot i know these
are some meaty topics and especially if
you didn't do the reading or you didn't
get through the chance to see this at a
first pass
it could be a lot so let's use it let's
try and understand the basics and then
we can start building with it
cool
all right
we talked about inheritance
we know that inheritance makes a class
from another class
or a hierarchy of classes that share a
set of properties and methods and at the
end of the day it's all you remember is
that enables us to share a set of
properties and methods without having to
rewrite all those methods and prop all
those methods and properties you're
doing good
cool
we made the child class together let's
keep pushing let's go back to the farm
let's go back to the farm and introduce
something and then we're going to take a
break you know what let's let's actually
take our break a little bit early right
we've covered a lot so far we've gone
through encapsulation we went through
abstraction we've done the beginnings of
inheritance we saw how we can have a
parent class with properties and methods
and inherit those properties and methods
into a child class without having to
rewrite all that code
right
let's go ahead let's take a break let's
let our brains meld on that a little bit
and when we come back we're going back
to the farm we've got some other stuff
to talk about
all right folks you're new around here
we'd like to be healthy like that we
like to
give our minds a little bit of a break
we like to look out the window let our
eyes focus on something farther away
we'll see you in five minutes
you know why they keep running papa
john's ads you know why
because you hooligans keep buying papa
john's
but they keep advertising
bam
wait until that data leaks wait until
the papa john's data leaks i got y'all
fans are gonna come swift
swift
you don't think i would
download the leak
compare it to all y'all emails and ban
y'all you all know who i am
people sweating right now
all right folks come home back
alrighty folks
let's go back to the farm
we took our break
all right
we have a problem
whenever new workers join the farm
they keep renaming the animals in our
system
and starting to get a little annoying
we're trying to build this program
uh we're trying to
have all of our animals have a name and
our new workers just keep renaming them
in our system and it's getting a little
bit annoying
so here's what that looks like
we have our lovely animal constructor
it's our animal class
that gives it a name property and the
ability to speak
and we can go ahead and create that new
animal
and we gave the name of simba
so when we do name.simba
it equals simba
however somebody can come in
and rename it to bob so let's take a
look at this we can have our
lovely animal
class here let's use the inspect tool
let's clear it
and
we have our lovely animal class here
we can go ahead and create simba so we
can do let
simba equal
and let simba
equal and we'll say a new
animal
and inside that animal we're going to
pass in the name of simba
right
great now if we ask for simba
we can see that it is an object that
came out of the animal class
and
when we passed in simba it went into the
constructor and it got a name property
of symbol that's why we see name
simba however
we can use
simba.name not only as a getter but we
can also do simba dot name and set it
equal to bob
and it's a setter because now when i
look for simba back
we can see that the name
has been updated to bob
so all these new employees
are coming in
even though we're creating the animals
from our class
somebody can just come in
and uh
change the name of our animals and it's
you know i'm getting a little i'm
getting a little
i'm getting a little pissed off
right they're coming to our farm
they're new
not putting any respect on their names
changing them from simba to bob and i've
had my i've had enough
the audacity
how dare they
exactly
so so what could help here
what are some things we could do well
let me show you
here we're going to use
a little a little little thing called a
getter
and we're going to combine this with a
convention so we're going to use a
little bit of something new that comes
that we can use with these classes
and we're going to use a convention as
well
so here we go let's look at this code
here
we can see two
things we can see here
that our constructor
is no longer setting
just name
the constructor is setting
underscore name
right and
it still all works so let's go ahead and
plug this all in
and plug this into the console real
quick just so we can see it don't worry
i'm going to make it we'll come back i
just want to see it
plug this in here um we can do simba
and when we ask for name
we get name back
right we can ask for name we get name
back
but when i do
simba.name equals
bob
right and i asked for simba back
i still have simba in there
right
even though i tried
updating name
nothing happened
when i did
when i asked for simba back like if we
do simba.name
i still get simba
back
what type of sorcery is this
all right let's let's do this one more
time let's do this one more time because
i just want to make sure the folks in
the back saw it
so our constructor's a little bit
different our class is a little bit
different
we have simba if we do simba.name
we get simba back
if we try changing the name using dot
notation to be bob
it doesn't do anything when i ask for
simba.name again i still get simba
all right so now
the the riff raft that are coming to our
farm can't rename our animals and let's
take a look at this
all right
let's take a look
ryan do exclamation point 100 devs and
you'll figure everything that you need
all right so if we look
we can see
that we're not actually setting
a name property here
we're setting an underscore name
right so that's something to keep in
mind here we're setting an underscore
name and we have this lovely
get
with the name
and when we say get name look what it's
returning
it is returning this
dot underscore name
and so we now have this getter that is
using the underscore name that we set in
the constructor
yet we can still just call it
name
right we could still use name and we do
what we're actually doing we use name
here
we're using the getter
and the getter goes
right the getter goes
and gets
underscore
name
right gets underscore
and so when we are actually trying to do
this dot name
the only thing that we're doing whenever
we type in this dot whenever we do simba
dot name
the only thing we are using
is this getter
does this getter
enable us to update the name property
is there any way that this will ever
update
underscore name
no
there's there's just no way
there's no way
for it to
go ahead and update
name
yet we can still use it
to our advantage
right we're starting to see this idea
of
we're going to use a word here it's
going to make the the nerds quake a
little bit we're starting to see this
idea of like private properties
right private properties and when i say
private i just mean that they're kind of
abstracted in a way right we have the
ability to get them we don't have the
ability to set them
right and so we can set them when we
create the object but once the object is
created there is no way to change the
name property so this solves our problem
of new folks renaming our animals
but it also enables us to sleep a little
better at night
right
that enables us to sleep a little bit
better at night because we know that
some other engineer
is not going to come along
and accidentally
rename
our animals
but let's take a look at let's take a
look what's underneath happening
underneath the hood here
let's take a look at something
underneath the hood here because we're
going to see something that's a little a
little a little funky a little funky
uh so let's go ahead let's copy this
let's open up the inspector
let's go to our console let's place this
in and let's look at simba
if we look at simba
oh
wait a minute
what's the property that simba has
it's underscore name
wait a minute
so there's not even a name property
it's underscore
name
wait a minute
interesting so does that mean
i could come along and do something like
this
and now if i ask for simba
oh now it's bob so wait a minute
huh
i thought this whole point of having the
getter
was so that this doesn't happen
well
that's the underscore
the underscore does nothing
for us there's nothing special think
back to our constructors our
capitalizing of the constructor did
nothing special
right this has nothing to do
with security it has nothing to do
uh with like making this so that nobody
can really do it it's a convention that
we are all agreeing to
whenever you see that underscore what
should be what am i screaming at you
whenever you see that underscore what am
i screaming to you
i'm screaming
change this
don't touch this
back up
run
don't touch it
now can some engineer on the team be a
jerk and not agree to this convention
yes
but by me using the underscore all of us
that are here right now we can agree to
not touching this stuff right to leave
it alone
right to never
ever
update or change
up property that uses
that underscore just like we made
capital letters of our constructors
right it's it's on site we outside you
touch that underscore property we
outside that's all i'm to say we outside
and i'm going to win
so if we take back and look at this
we can see that oh
well
we can see that we're actually setting
underscore name as the property
and then instead of having to use this
whenever we're working
with our lovely object we have this new
getter that we could just use the name
we can just use name right because we
never want to use
underscores when we're actually trying
to use dot notation to access things off
of our objects we should never do that
right
and so we can use name which uses the
getter and underneath the hood it goes
and gets the name property for us so we
get this nice convenient way of
accessing the properties on our objects
but we don't have the ability for
somewhere else in our code to [__] it
all up
that makes sense
it's just a little bit of convention
that can save us some time a little bit
of convention that can save us some
misery
right
let's run it back let's take a look at
it
let's see what trouble we can get into
when we were using our original class
anyone could come along
right and it's it's not like we're
saying like anyone like when i say
anyone i don't mean like random users on
the internet i mean other engineers that
are working on our team
could there be a scenario where somebody
does this in the code
right could there be a scenario where
somebody goes oh let me add a name
to an object right could that could that
happen
yeah somebody absolutely somewhere in
our code base could go ahead and set the
name to bob
should there ever be a scenario where
someone
does this
should there ever be a scenario where
someone does that
no
anyone that's on our team would see that
underscore and they would run
they would say i should not touch this i
should not do this i will mess up the
code
if i do
so
to make it a little bit easier since we
know that we can do this because we know
we can just use regular name we don't
want somebody to be able to accidentally
do this
notice why they accidentally be able to
do like name equals bob and then next
time we ask for simba.name it's
something different right we don't want
that to be able to happen right so
to get around this
we introduce something new which is
when we are building our constructor
we don't actually use the name property
we're using underscore name
and then to make it simple for other
developers and even ourself
we enable it to just use the regular
name
and we use a getter to say hey when
somebody does the name property
on an object that comes out of this
class what they really want
is this underscore name
right they really want this underscore
name and so the getter goes and gets the
underscore name but the person using it
only ever sees name they really have no
idea what is happening
under the hood
right just like when we get in the car
we have a steering wheel that enables us
to like turn the car go about our day
but do we ever have a button on our
steering wheel that enables us to
drop all the oil out of our engine
would we ever put that on our interface
right we ever put that on our interface
like
drop all the oil like we're just trying
to like change bluetooth and like poop
all the oil drops out of our out of our
out of our engine as we're going down
the highway we would never ever put that
button on our interface
right and so now we're starting to
control the interface of this object
right we're starting to be like okay
this is what you get access to
right this is what you get access to but
i'm going to make it
so that you can't shoot yourself in the
foot
i'm going to make it so that you can't
actually ever set the name to something
else because the problem we were having
is folks kept updating the properties on
our objects they kept changing the names
of our animals and so by using this
underscore convention and using getters
we can expose things to the interface we
can expose that you can use the name
property but i'm not going to give you
the ability to [__] up the rest of the
code
right
cool
constantly kant said underscore is
something js developers agreed to use in
order to semantically represent a
private property it's a property that is
intended to only be accessed truly
within the class that is the mean to
prevent cases where people attempt to
change the property from outside the
class winner winner chicken dinner
why is that so important why is it why
is important to have these like private
properties that can't be changed
outside of the class
why is it important to have these
private properties that can't be changed
outside the class
yeah we're starting to see how
encapsulation abstraction starts to fuse
with these other pillars right it
enables us it's the mechanism
by which we can do abstraction
right we don't have to worry about
changing the name on stuff anymore there
is no way for us as an engineer working
in this code to accidentally change the
name and right now it's just simple
we're just saying the name but as we
start to get a little bit deeper in our
code we're going to start to see real
meat behind our classes and they're
going to be scenarios where we don't
want to lose sleep at night that someone
could accidentally change stuff we want
that stuff abstracted
right we want that water boiler
abstracted we want that
engine abstracted we don't want anybody
to be able to change to drop the oil out
of the engine we don't want anybody to
be able to like remove the water boiler
right we can abstract stuff out the way
and so this is a mechanism for that
abstraction
but we still get all the benefits we can
still use it we can still interact with
it it's still on our interface but we
don't have to worry about it at the end
of the day
all right
so when we see the underscore what does
that mean
we see the underscore it means what
don't don't do what to it
private run away no touchy don't touch
it don't mess with it outside of that
class
cool
all right
so
we're introducing a new scenario
we just rescued a
bunch of animals
like a bunch of animals
jason derulo hey thank you for the gift
of subs hope you're doing well thank you
for being here
all right we just rescued a bunch of
animals
all right
how should we build out our system let's
think through this
let's build let's build out our system
so
um
we have in the starter code for today
we have this this completed code already
so i'm going to come to this completed
code
and i'm just going to comment it all out
i'm going to comment it all out
and we're going to do some of it
together
actually let's do the whole thing
cool i'm going to type it out so we can
see it kind of like line by line uh how
we're going to do it so we want to start
adding a bunch of animals we're going to
have all these new animals coming in
and we want to be able to build this out
that we can handle all of these new
animals that are coming in we're going
to have dogs we're going to have cats
we're going to have to handle all of
these different things that are
happening
with these dogs and these cats and we're
going to see some cool stuff here
all right so let's build out our
let me give myself some room here
all right let's build out our initial
parent class
so class
animal
and we're going to go ahead and put in
our constructor
cool and we know that we want our
animals to all have a name should we
code along no don't cut along with this
let's just talk through it
so we know we want all of our animals to
have a name so in the constructor we
need to bring in a name
as a parameter
and
we know that when we go to set the name
property
what should it be
it's no longer just going to be this dot
name what should it be if we want all of
our animals to have a name
property
yeah i want it to be underscore name
that way we can abstract out the name
and not have to worry about it and
that's going to be name whatever's get
whatever gets passed into this
constructor for name is now set to a
property called this underscore name now
since we're using the underscore name
and it's kind of private we know not to
touch it outside the class what do we
need so that we can actually use the
name in our program
we need a getter exactly so we're going
to do our get
name
and that's going to be our getter so now
we can use name anywhere and when we do
the get name we want to return
this dot underscore name
this is what's going to enable us to use
the name property
but when we're doing it we're really
getting this dot name and that way
there's no way for our user to actually
use name to update the objects the only
thing that name does
on any object that comes out of this
class
is return the underscore name properties
cool
all right next we want to add a speak
i want to add a speak method
cool so we have the speak method and we
just want to we just want to do the
original we did i think it was just
console log makes a sound so let's go
ahead and console.log
let's do our ticks we're going to say
um
we can say
inside of our template literal here we
can say
this that underscore name
makes a sound
there we go
why don't you need the parentheses when
calling name because the getter is
handling that for us the get's handling
that for us
like i said we got to see it we got to
use it well plenty of time to go
have plenty of time to go into the
nitty-gritty details as we go on
all right
so we have the ability to now have an
animal that has a
name underscore name property we are
able to access that underscore name
property
by getting having a getter that gets the
name and they all have a speak method
where it grabs the name of the animal
and says it makes a sound
all right
i want to have as as
animals on the farm
dogs and cats
right
right i want to have dogs and
cats
i want to have dogs and cats
uh what could i do so that i could have
all objects that spit out dogs and a
bunch of objects that spit out cats what
could i do
we could extend exactly i saw somebody
said why does this underscore name still
work inside this method because we are
still within the class remember this
underscore is just that we can use it
inside the class but anywhere outside
the class it really like just doesn't
exist
right
cool
somebody said why can't we just have
like name as a method well then we
wouldn't be able to use the name as a
property right we wouldn't be able to
use name as a property the get enables
us to use that name as a property
all right so let's go ahead and create
our dog class we can just go ahead and
say class
dog extends and we can say animal
beautiful so now anything that comes out
of this dog class
will get all the benefits of the animal
class and so let's go ahead and build
our constructor
we want to be able to pass in the name
still that we'll we'll send up to the
animal constructor with super
but i also want one property on my
dog
i want one property on dog
um
posture check hey thank you for the
posture check
jummy think of it a posture check and
some kind of fire thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
i use
breed
i'm just going to use breed
cool we saw that already
all right so in our constructor
we can use if i want to pass name and i
want to use the animal constructor how
can i pass name to the animal the animal
constructor
yeah we can use that super keyword
and we can pass in name
and then if i want to set breed i'm
going to do this
but what am i going to do here with
breed that's a little bit different this
time
i'm going to do a breed that's a little
bit different this time
yeah we're going to do the underscore
just so that we know that nobody should
mess with it outside
and so we'll say this underscore breed
equals breed
nice
uh and now that we've used that
underscore here what do we know that we
need as part of this class
what do we know we need as part of this
class
we need a getter
we need a getter so we can do get
breed
and we can go ahead and say return
this dot underscore
read
so now we'll be able to get the breed
out even though
it's a private uh part of this class
all right
and i feel pretty good about dog i want
to show you something i want to show you
something else too
um
when we run the speak method
i want to add a speak
on the dog as well just to show you kind
of like how this can work so
inside my speak method
i want two i want two things to happen
inside the speak method i want two
things to happen
uh i want to see the original speak that
comes from the animal class
and i want to be able to create my own
newspeak uh that also runs
how do you think i might be able to get
the speak
that's on the animal class
yeah
all right i see some folks doing it
we're gonna use the super again so we
can just do super dot speak
and that'll grab the speak from the
parent class
nice
um we're still inside of a method so i
can also console.log inside of here as
well so i'm just going to do a
console.log
um
you can just you can use the name again
if i guess
you can do
this dot name
um
i guess a dog would bark right we're
gonna say barks
don't lose it yet don't don't don't
don't hyper focus on this don't hyper
don't
just hold on hold on don't hyper focus
on this
just leave it just leave it just let it
be it's okay
but let it let it pass through you
if you felt it you felt it ah
oh
that's your inner code when you're
trying to come just let it be let it be
it's okay
okay
let it marinate we'll get there we'll
get there all right
so we have two things inside this method
which is pretty interesting
um
we should be able to grab the speak
from the parent
and we're also going to see this console
log of barks
so when this speak runs we should
actually we should see two things we
should see um the name makes a sound
and then we should see barks
i just wanted to show it so we can see
like the the super happen i just want to
be able to show you that like we can
grab the methods from the parent
okay
let's make one more let's make a cat a
cat class
class
cat
extends
animal
and we're going to build out our
constructor
our instructor is going to have
a
let's say uh probably like a name and a
breed again right
oh this feels bad uh let's let's grab
the name from the parent using super so
that'll go up to the animal class
and let's go ahead and set breed again
cool
and
since we since we're using that
underscore we have to set a we had to
get a getter and we'll say get breed
and that's going to be return
this dot underscore breed
right
and then we're going to do a speak
and let's do the same thing where we we
get the super as well so we'll do super
dot speak
and we'll also console.log something new
and where we'll just kind of use the
name
this dot name
and meows
and this feels
horrible
why
why does this feel horrible
because i'm rewriting a lot of stuff
if i was to think about this
if i knew that i was only going to have
domesticated animals on this farm like
if i knew it was only going to have i
don't know do wild animals have a breed
does anyone know this
or is it just like animals that we put
like selective pressure on
do you like wild animals have breeds
i don't think so right
they have species but like not breeds
right do they are they like different
breeds of
hippopotamuses
yeah no there's not right so it's just
it's just animals that we put like like
that we've domesticated or put like
selective pressure on right that have
breeds
i don't know i mean this whole lecture i
don't know
um
so i'm starting to feel that there there
might need to be something happen right
there might be something in my code that
i need to think through
i might want to put
breed
in my
animal class
right
i might need to put breed in my animal
class or
if i knew
that i was going to have
both domesticated animals
and
wild animals then i probably need to
extend animal
into
wild and domestic and then have dog and
cats extend from
from domesticated and
hippopotamuses and zeb zebras
extend from the wild class
saturnalia is a breed
a specific population that has
selectively bred the preservation of
specific characteristics whereas the
species is the largest group that
produces fertile offspring through
breeding so yeah so wild animals do not
have breeds
right so something we could do
is instead of extending from animal
they're gonna exist the world where dogs
extend it from domesticated
i can't spell right domesticated and
zebra would extend from wild and we
could put breed on the domesticated
class and we could put
um
we could put like original habitat in
the wild and then we wouldn't have to
redo this breed nonsense for both dog
and cat
right so there's something to think
through right something to think through
like as we start to add more
layers to this right we could start to
think like wait a minute huh if i'm
repeating myself maybe
i should redo how i am doing this
hierarchy
right i should maybe think about how i
can redo
this inheritance right i want some stuff
to inherit from animals but it seems
like i might have a situation where i
want two other classes that my animals
inherited from one that's domesticated
and they get breed and one that's wild
where they would get species and then i
wouldn't have to redo this breed
multiple times right it would already be
on the domesticated class and i would be
extending from domesticated and not
animal
hmm
so this would be a form of refactoring
yeah it could be a form of refactoring
exactly it would be a form of
refactoring that could help us do that
but it's just something to think through
it's more of a thought
as we start to see how these classes can
be used and come together but i feel i
feel good with this i feel like we have
our animal class
i feel like we have our dog extension
we have our cat extension
and i want to be able to use these
extensions so
let's go ahead and i'm just going to
copy all this
i'm going to comment out the stuff we
just did
just in case i had like any weird little
errors i'm just going to uncomment the
one i did before
beautiful
and i'm just going to grab this stuff
and i'm going to go to
the
console with it
so
let's go ahead and open up our inspector
and i'm going to go to console
and plop all this stuff in
and hit
enter
all right
so
if we look um what we did here is we put
in our
animal class
we put in our two
children class
of dog that extends animal and cat which
extends animal
beautiful
and we went ahead and created some new
objects right we went ahead and created
some new objects
we created simba
which is a new dog object we passed in
the name of simba
and the breed of shepherd right because
remember when we pass in
when we pass in
simba
simba is going to go into
the name property of dog which is going
to be supered up to animal so that the
ability to give it a name
the ability to give it name comes from
this animal constructor
right cool
we saw that
we passed in the name and we also passed
in a breed and we can see here on dog
we passed in
a breed and we set a underscore breed on
the object and now to get the breed we
would need to use the getter
all right
let's see
um so we created a new dog
simba and shepherd
another dog moshi aka the machine
and
put in the breed of pitbull
and then we also created a new cat
salem with the breed of american short
hair
cool
let's just check these out and see what
we got
let's look at simba
all right we can see that simba is a dog
a dog object or an object made from the
dog class it has a name of simba and a
breed of shepherd but we can see that
both of these are
oop we see that both of these have the
underscore and are both private
right
they're both private so that means we
should never do like simba
simba.underscore name or simba
underscore breed
if we want to see the name or the breed
we can just do breed
and the getter goes and gets the breed
which is shepherd
all right goes and gets the breed
that's neat if we want to try and mess
with it though
and change it to something else
uh it doesn't work when we ask for simba
we can see that the breed is still
shepherd
cool so we have this lovely new
dog
called siba lovely dog called mashi and
a new cat called salem all using
our original animal class and the
children class of dog
and
cat
cool
um let's actually see if we can like
make them say the different things let's
do simba
dot speak
and we can see that simba makes a sound
and simba
barks
where did simba makes a sound come from
yeah it comes from the super right we
were able to get that that simba makes a
sound from the animal class if we look
at the animal class
it had a speak
and we went and got that speak we're
inside the dog right we went and got the
super dot
so we got to speak from the animal class
and then we had our own console log in
our speak method so this is this is big
brain right here
when i did simba.speak
what actually ran
let's get big brain for a second here
when i did simba dot speak
what rat like what what happened here
what method fired
yeah itself
the speak method on itself fired it
checked itself first and guess what it
had a speak method
and that speak method the first thing it
did was use the speak
from the animal class it did super.speak
so it checked itself it had a speak
method it just so happened that its
speak method used the other speak method
and then did its own console log
right if we look at that
we can see that hey
go and get the
speak method from the animal
class
and then do your own thing
so it checked itself first
and then went up the prototype chain
using super to get the other speak
be exception
yeah like i said today it's about using
and getting
getting a a glimpse of to the
understanding right and so we're
starting to see all these things come
together and then we got to start using
them we got to understand them we got to
build with them
tokyo titan what videos can we watch for
absolute beginners do exclamation point
100 devs here in chat you'll get
everything you need to know all of our
original videos are on youtube
all right
cool
so we now have the ability for simba to
speak symbol makes a sound simba barks
we can also do salem
dot speak
and we can see stella makes a sound
salem meows
beautiful
so now we have the ability to have these
different objects like can we just take
a second
this [__] gets me so excited
i i really do get excited when this
stuff starts to happen
right like we now have the ability
to create objects
those objects can inherit
a bunch of properties and methods from a
parent class
we can
understand the reason why we're using
objects in the first place is so that
our data and functionality is all in one
place right that's encapsulation
we understand that we can abstract stuff
out the way so that when other engineers
are working on our code they're not
accidentally renaming our our our
animals they're not they're not they're
not touching bits of the code that they
shouldn't we've actually set it up so
they can only actually consume there's
no way for them to update the name
there's no way for them to update the
breed we've abstracted that out there
without the way
and now we're using inheritance to stop
ourselves from having to constantly
repeat the same lines of code we don't
have to give all of our dogs our cats
our cows our horses our our chimpanzees
our hippopotamuses the ability to have a
name they just inherit that
from the animal class
and yeah it's really simple right now
but eventually we were really building
out these robust classes
right we're really building out these
robust classes
we would have the ability to have all
this stuff inherited down into our cats
down into our dogs down into our hippos
down into our horses down into our cows
down into our pigs and we wouldn't have
to repeat all this code and better yet
all that code the important bits are
abstracted out the away so that as new
engineers come on board they don't have
to worry that they're [__] up your
code
what
so when when when
when folks talk about using object
oriented programming
they they go off this deep end of
looking up all these really weird
oddly phrased stuff that never makes
sense but i'm hoping that you start to
see that oh
encapsulation means that we can keep
our data and functionality in one place
we don't have to worry about
is a variable declared a hundred lines
down
with abstraction we can make it so that
folks can use the things that we've
coded but not [__] them up right they
they can't they literally can't rename
stuff they literally can't give a new
breed to something they can only consume
it so that way when they're building
and they decide to go build something
else on the farm they're not losing
sleep at night going oh man did i mess
up leon's code about the naming and the
breed stuff
no
they can just build what they want to
build and not worry about the stuff that
we've abstracted away
and then we see the power of inheritance
right
we see the power of inheritance to where
we can
set something on a parent class and all
of our children have access to it
that's really powerful like [__] weird
definitions like that's some powerful
meaty stuff that we can start to use and
like we said we're gonna use it first
we're seeing it here we're using it here
we're just skimming the top of
understanding you're gonna come back on
thursday and we're going to review all
this stuff
right
we're going to review all that stuff but
we can start to understand why
all right so i just get really excited i
don't know i like when i like when this
stuff starts to click
i get i get hype
all right
we got a little bit more before we end
up class tonight we'll do a raid of
course
i just want to see a little bit more
[__] give me give me i know your brains
are on the cusp dig deep give me just a
little bit more
let me just let me let me go we got 15
minutes give me give me 15 minutes i
know your brain hurts give me 15 minutes
let's let's push go where
go where you think you couldn't go
before
right we've been working hard i know
i've been i know our brains are i know
we're we're halfway through our brains
are
are are our our our lean mean learning
machines at this point
all right let's learn one more thing and
then we'll end tonight
all right so we're on the farm
and we want to do a morning roll call
right
and fortunately dr doolittle works on
this farm dr doolittle could talk to
animals if you're not familiar
all right so we're gonna do a morning
roll call
uh we want to hear all the animals
speak
right
you want to hear all the animals speak
and so if we look at the code that we
had in the complete file we saw this bit
right here we saw that we created all of
our
we created dogs we created cats
and then here we put all of our objects
into a what
put all of our objects into a what
into an array
and then
we looped through all of those objects
and we would see
simba barks
moshi barks
and salem meows
bark
barks
meows
wait a minute
hold on
wait a minute wait a minute
mark sparks meows
how does this work
they're objects
each object is different
a
should be holding two
dogs and one cat
yet speak works on both dogs
and cats
what
so hold on hold on hold on hold on hold
on hold on hold on hold on
we look at it we have two dogs
and a cat
they're all in this array
we loop through the array a would be
simba
then it's going to be mashi then it's
going to be salem and we're calling
speak
on simba then we're calling speak on
mashi and we're calling speak on salem
simba barks moshi barks and salem meows
speak doesn't care
if it's a dog
or a cat
it just worked
let's read some definitions
so if you just read the books
or god forbid just watch the youtube
video because i can't tell you how many
books i read how many youtube videos i
watched how much documentation i read
about this next concept it never made
any sense to me because here here's
exactly why it never made sense these
are copy and pasted from some some very
official sources that that i love dearly
um
but hold on stay with me
code written to use an interface
automatically knows how to work with any
number of different objects that provide
that interface
yeah it's too late you're using big
words i'm going to treat them as
disrespect
all right let's read this a call let's
read this again one second
all right come on let's get i got to get
a little closer
code written to use an interface
automatically knows how to work
with any number of different objects
that provide the interface
all right hold on one more time
what the heck's an interface
somebody tell me what an interface is
what's an interface
oh yeah we did this with apis it's just
what we use to interact with something
right like if we were using our lovely
pokemon pikachu
uh pet here my interface would be the
buttons i wanted to interact with my
pikachu here's the buttons to interact
with my pikachu so when i say interface
it's just a fancy word for saying how i
interact with something
knows how to work with any number of
different objects
that provide the interface
do my objects provide an interface
what's the interface for my objects
yeah
it's the properties and methods the
properties and methods are like how i
interact with the object right let's
just stick with methods the methods are
how i interact with
my object
right so let's let's so interface is the
way we interact with something
the way i can interact with my objects
are through its interface and when i say
interface i just mean like the methods
like the methods are the way
that i interface with my objects all
right so code written to use an
interface
automatically knows how to work with any
number of different objects that provide
the interface
so let's go back and take a look
here is my interface of speak
does every single object that gets used
here
have a speak
interface
yeah
my dog has speak my second dog has speak
and my cat of salem
also has speak all right so so let's
let's read that again code written to
use an interface
automatically knows how to work with any
number of different objects that provide
the interface so all three of my objects
simba mashi and salem they all provided
the interface of what what was the
interface that
simba moshi and salem provided
speak
speak was the interface they provided so
the code written
to use an interface this code was
written to use the interface of speak
the code written to use an interface
automatically knows
how to work with any number of different
objects
simba mashi
and
salem that provide the interface so my
code automatically knows what to do
because every single object
provided that speak interface
right
simba did mashi did
and salem did
cool
this like literally when you read about
the thing we're building up to
these are like these are the three
paragraphs that they use to describe
this nonsense all right
sibling descendants
of a base class
will all have the same interface but
varying implementations
is this
the [__]
huh
do that again
sibling descendants
of a base class
will all have the same interface
but varying implementations
mom came to pick me up i'm scared
the [__]
i swear to i swear i swear this is ex
like when i was trying to learn
what the heck
i'll just say it polymorphism is these
are these are like the real things they
ask you this is like this is the [__]
this is like this is the good
definitions
this is like the good stuff
all right hold on
sibling descendants of a base class
where have we seen sibling descendants
of a base class
dog and cat exactly all right dog and
cat are both children
are both children of our animal class
right they both extend animal so that
means dog and cat are sibling
descendants don't go see it we're in
javascript world see a good guess at the
css but we're in javascript land right
now
all right so sibling descendants dog and
cat
of a base class in this case animal
will all have the same interface
but varying implementations
what interface did my sibling descendant
share
what interface did my sibling
descendants share speak
they both shared the speak interface
but varying implementations
okay
[Music]
dog and cat had varying implementations
because dog did what and cat did what
yeah
dog barked
and cat meowed
right dog bark cat me meowth so sibling
descendants aka cat and dog greatest
television show of all time cat dog by
the way
of a base class animal
all had the same interface which was the
speak method but varying implementations
because if we look if we go back to the
code
i should probably just stay over here
and bring up my code
because if we look
one
barks
the other meows very varying
implementations
if i was to create a new animal let's
say i was able to let's say i was able
to create
an uh
a class of cow
that extended animal
and i forgot to give them a console log
would cal
still have a speak method
yes even if i forgot this whole thing
the object would check itself for speak
and if it didn't have it where would it
go
if if the cow we just created
didn't have speak where would it go
it would go up to the parent which is
animal
[__] yes
they're doing it leon they're learning
they're getting this [__]
yes
[Music]
[Applause]
one way or another you're gonna learn
first try first try
let's go
this is the hardest [__] [__] to
learn and you're like yeah leon they
they didn't if the object itself didn't
have speak it would go up to the parent
class which is animal because this is
just syntactical sugar underneath the
hood
is prototypal inheritance we know
objects check themselves before they
wreck themselves and they don't have it
they go up the [__] prototype chain
let's go
we don't get got let's go
we outside we online
let's go
all right
one more one more we're almost there
we're almost there
almost there
all right
when you're not sure of the objects type
at run time
the let's just let's get rid of and here
when you're not sure of the object's
type at runtime
the most specific method is called
therefore the behavior of the method
called
may differ
depending on the object's type
at runtime
hold on
when you're not sure the object's type
what type of objects have we seen so far
we saw cat and dog right we saw cat and
dog all right so we call we saw cat dog
and animal
so we're not sure if it's cat dog or
animal at run time like run time just
means like when we're like trying to use
it
so if we're not sure if it's a cat dog
or animal when we're trying to use it
this most specific method is called
wait a minute that's just what we just
talked about we just talked about that
right
it checks itself
right it checks itself
before it goes out the prototype chain
this is easy
easy clap
let's go
easy why they have to talk like this
who writes this
i'm writing a book [__] it i'm writing a
book this [__] is this is getting on my
nerves
when you're not sure if it's a dog car
animal when you go to use it the most
specific method is called
aka it's just going to check itself
first
therefore the behavior of the method
called may differ no [__] because if
it's a dog or a cat
and they both have different speak
methods then it makes sense that their
behavior whether they meow or bark would
be different depending on whether or not
it's a cat or dog when you go to use it
easy why'd you gotta write like this
easy
cool
why is this code disgusting
this is bad code
too many conditionals right like hold on
hold on a minute
in this case we're checking to see if
it's a dog and if it's a dog if our
object is a dog
then we'll let it bark
if our object was a cat we would let it
meow
right
but if we were to build out
a whole farm
we're talking hundreds of
animals each time i added a new animal
what would i have to update
i would have to update this disgusting
conditional
every single time but we know
we know
that we don't have to do this
we just saw that we don't have to do
this
disgusting conditional
every single time imagine each animal we
we added we would have to remember
to come back and update this bit of code
that means our code is not truly what
if we would have to come back and and
remember to update this every single
time we made a change we know that our
code is not truly what
not not dry
not dry
it's not abstracted
if i can't make changes in one part
of my code
and not worry about what happens
somewhere else then my code can never be
truly abstracted
so i can't have this
this can't be a thing
right this can't be a thing if i was
like making new animals if i was making
cows and chickens
and i had to also remember to come back
to this point in code and fix it this
wouldn't work it would never be able i
would never be able to have truly
abstracted code where i could just focus
on the thing that i was running
so
this works
do i have to update anything here
do i have to update anything here like
if i added a cow a chicken if i added a
hippopotamus do i have to come back and
update this
nah
so
what if there is a way
to perform a single action in different
forms
what if there was a way to have the
ability to call the same method on
different objects what if i could call
speak
on dog what if i could call speak on cat
what if i could call speak on chicken on
hippo on cow on pig
and not
have to write conditionals
and switch cases and remember to come
and update them to never have a world
without true abstraction well guess what
baby
we don't live in that world we live in a
world where we have
now
[Music]
polymorphism baby
polymorphism
all right let's let's uh let's let's
touch on the four pillars real quick
to see if they actually make any sense
all right
encapsulation
the process of
storing
our functions
and properties into one thing the idea
of fusing
our data and functionality into one
object
why
why do we care
about encapsulation what is the reason
what doesn't cat what is
fusing
the data and functionality into one
thing help us do
well it makes it easier for us to add
new stuff
our variables aren't all over the place
our functions aren't all over the place
right we don't have to worry about some
stuff being a thousand lines down in the
the code base we know that all the stuff
we care about is in one location so it
makes it way easier to add new stuff
when our data and functionality are
encapsulated
it makes it easier to read through what
was already coded we know everything we
care about is inside that one object we
make it so that you're not afraid to
make changes you know the functionality
and the data are tied so if you change
the data you know your functionality is
going to change if you add new
functionality you know what data it's
working with
encapsulating it all into one object
means that even if something else is
happening outside of that object it's
okay
because your stuff is also abstracted
starting to see how all these things
come together
right all these things come together
they're four pillars but they really
work in tandem with each other
right abstraction is hiding the details
only showing what is essential
but why why do we need abstraction
extraction makes our code base
into smaller more manageable pieces of
code right we can split the complexity
of our project into many different
manageable parts and when we're working
on these different parts we don't have
to worry about what's happening
elsewhere in our program this
encapsulation and abstraction work
together so that we can make changes and
not lose sleep at night we can update
stuff we can work on different parts of
the project and know that we're not
[__] somebody else's upwork we're not
changing their names we're not changing
their breeds we are able to make new
cows and not worry about if there's some
messy conditional somewhere that's going
to break when we add a cow
right we have this inheritance we have
the ability for a class
to
share sets of properties and methods
that we can extend from a parent get all
those properties and methods in the
child and use them to keep our code wide
to keep our code
dry to get rid of redundant code to make
it so that as we
create new objects we're not constantly
reinventing the wheel
right it makes it so that we keep our
code bases smaller tighter and since all
of our data and functionality is
encapsulated when we build these classes
we know all the bits that are working
together
we can extend them if we need to grab
stuff from the from the parent right
and polymorphism works with all these
things together so that the code that we
write right
uses an interface that can work with any
of the objects that we created so the
interfaces that we give the methods that
we put on our objects they should be
able to work that code that we write
should be able to work with any of the
objects that we created in our program
and why do we need polymorphism it helps
us avoid these nasty ifs elses and
switch statements that we would have to
be keeping track of right if we were to
add a new cow is that going to break
something somewhere else no we know that
the speak method would work on any
object that we create and so we have
this idea of polymorphism polymorphism
bleeds into inheritance that bleeds into
abstraction it bleeds into encapsulation
all these things come together to create
a paradigm where we can write code more
efficiently work together as engineers
make sure
that when we are working together we
don't have to lose sleep at night we can
all do our own thing we can all work
collaboratively together and we have a
system that we can all agree to and
follow
cool
oop baby
also polymorphism makes your code more
reusable we don't worry about stuff
breaking and it supports the other
pillars
all right
got some homework folks i hope i hope
you had some fun i i know like we said
remember we're gonna use it we're
skimming the understanding you're gonna
come back thursday we're gonna have a
lot of really fun stuff like thursday
got so much big news to share we got so
much fun stuff to share we're gonna get
our review in don't worry we're going to
come see this again
i have some homework before you i have
some homework between now and next class
please
please before you show up on thursday
review play
break the code we went over tonight play
with everything see what happens if you
don't use super see what happens if you
if you don't just use underscore name
like play with it you have to break it
remember we said we use we understand we
build you have to come back and play and
build with this stuff
all right folks let's do a raid let's
get you those channel points remember
you want those sweet sweet channel
points so you can get all these cool
perks that happen here on stream as
always when we rate somebody please give
them some love give them some follows
oh mastermind is on we're gonna raid
mastermind i'm so pumped uh mastermind's
amazing if you have ever had any
interested in devops um
they're they are the man to make your
your dreams come true let's go over and
say what's up to mastermind um
one of my favorite streamers on
which
please
give them a follow show them some love
give them the
the warm 100 devs hello
alrighty
hope you had some fun
hope you learned a little bit come back
on thursday some amazing news to share
some amazing updates some really cool
stuff about the agency and then also
we're going to get some good good review
in alrighty folks have a wonderful rest
of your evening let's raid
peace youtube